This is an optional extra
section on Russell's argument
for the Principle of
Acquaintance. I shouldn't really
say this optional. They are all
optional. This section is particularly
optional. I recommend that you
skip over it, unless you're
especially interested. So we
know that Russell endorses the
principle of acquaintance. Here
it is. Every proposition which we
can understand must be composed
wholly of constituents with
which were acquainted. So we
know what the principle is. We
don't fully understand that
principle, yet, I think, at least
most of us are very unlikely to.
That's one thing. The other
thing that we haven't got is
any sense of what
Russell might say by way of
defense of this principle. So
what's
his argument for the
principle?
Well, one thing he says is this.
He says, ‘It seems to me that
the truth of this principle
is evident as soon as it's
understood.’
Now when a philosopher says that, you
can be pretty sure first of all
that the principle is far from
evident. It's going to be quite
controversial. And, secondly,
that they haven't got an
argument for it. Another
giveaway here is the use of the
word ‘me’. I strongly encourage
you not to use the word ‘me’, and not
to refer to yourself when you were
writing. Philosophy isn't really
about your opinions. I'm sure
you've got lots of opinions; so
have I.
You know
opinions are lovely, and
that's great. But that's a
weekend thing. Don't spend
your work time doing
opinions. Don't write about
yourself.
Who cares what it seems like to
you? You’re not special, you're
just Mr. Russell.
I don't care what you think,
nor should you. This is not a
course about what people think. It’s
a course about the truth. About trying to
get to the truth so anyway.
Here's an attempted argument for
the Principle of Acquaintance. I
think there is an argument here
somewhere. Russell says the theory
that judgments consist of ideas
is fundamentally mistaken. And
what does he mean by that? He
goes on to say the view.
So I take it this is the theory
that judgment is consist of
ideas, the view. Seems to be
that there is some mental
existent which may be called the
idea of something outside of the
mind of the person who has the
idea. And that since judgment is
the mental event, its
constituents must be
constituents of the mind.
Or the person charging.
OK, so his knee I'm thinking
about the Puffin as Russell
Presents the theory of ideas.
What has to happen here is this
has to be me.
An idea in my head of the Puffin
and the Puffin itself.
So we get this kind of threefold
thing going on here, so my.
The thing that I'm most directly
related to is just the idea of
the profit and then some
relation between the idea and
the Puffin. I suppose. OK, good.
I'm not sure you're going to sit
there for long anyway.
But in this to you.
Ideas become avail between US
and outside things is a very
profound. We never really and
knowledge attained to the things
we are supposed to be knowing
about, but only to the ideas of
those things. So this is
Russell's criticism, if we think
that you know thinking or
knowing something about The
thing is a matter of being
related to an idea, then of
course the idea seems to be a
barrier between me and the
Puffin. It's unclear what the
relation between the idea and
the profit is and therefore
unclear how I'm ever going to be
thinking about that. All. As
Russell says, the relation of
mind, an idea, an object on the
way. On this view
is utterly obscure.
Maybe that's Russell's critique.
Of course, you might disagree
with Russell. I hope you got
some good reasons. If you do so,
let's just pop that away.
So here's the cool part. What is
Russell going to say? Well, I'll
tell you. Glad you asked. He
says I see no reason to believe
that when we were acquainted
with an object, the Puffin,
there is another something which
can be called the idea of the
object, On the contrary.
I hope that acquaintance is
holier relation. Not demanding
any such constituent of the mind
as opposed by the advocate of
ideas. So the relational view,
the acquaintance view that
Russell has is there's two
things me and the Puffin, the
ideas view that he's attacking
here as he presents it is the
claim that there are three
things me. The idea of the
profit and the Puffin itself.
And Russell says since the
relation between the idea of the
pardon, the pun itself is
obscur, introducing those ideas
is just creating problems. I'm
going to read read those
altogether. I'm just going to
have direct relation between me
and the Puffin. The relation
acquaintance, no ideas at all.
So here's the crux of it. The
theory that judgment consists
of ideas, says Russell is
fundamentally mistaken.
Acquaintances, holier
relation, not demanding
anything like an idea.
Now I think there's an attempt.
An argument here for the
principle of acquaintance. I'm
not certain about this, but I
think they might be, and I think
if I were to reconstruct it, I'd
say something like this.
When things go well, our
thoughts about things in the
world. I'm going to your case
when things don't go well. We're
not thinking about anything at
all. Of course, it's possible
to. Fake, think as we might call
it, but it's not always like
that. Secondly, any theory
of thought needs to
elucidate the relation
between thoughts and things.
Seems clear enough, that's
actually what we're trying to do
in this course, or at least
we're exploring that idea.
Invoking ideas says Russell to
do this makes matters more, not
less obscure. Now is very good
case for that. You may not be
fully convinced here, but I
think you've got to have some
pretty good reasons to reject
that idea given the last sort of
400 years or so of working
philosophy. Their forces,
Russell. The intentionality of
thought consists of bottom in a
relation between thinker in the
object that relation is
acquaintance. So if this is
right, we've got close to
an argument.
For the principle acquaintance,
I say close to you because this
conclusion that you got here
that isn't quite the principle
acquaintance. The other thing
I wanted to mention here is
I'm using this time
intentionality for the first
time, so I want to highlight
that by intentionality. I just
mean this idea of point of
view. So the idea is that the
intentionality of thought is
the fact that your thoughts.
Are a matter of you having a
point of view of the world when
you're thinking about something.
There's a relation between you
and a thing. That's
intentionality, as I understand
now, of course you can get into
all kinds of hot water with this
term intentionality. But here
I'm using it in a way, just as a
shorthand for talking about
points of view. So I might have
said, look, the fact that in
virtue of having thoughts, you
have a point of view on certain
parts of the world consists of
what men are relation between, I
think are in an object. So it
really need that term.
Intentionality there at all. So
I'm not going to introduce
anything. You are complicated,
and nor should you.
So here's what I think might
be an argument that Russell
gave for the principle of
acquaintance. Or it might be
wrong. Maybe that's not what
Russell had in mind at all.
Maybe the arguments against
one, maybe it's not.
I'm not sure he is the argument
that this this is my attempt.
OK, So what do I want to
emphasize here? Well, actually
something pretty simple.
Seems to me that even if I'm
wrong about Russell's argument,
he saying two things that I
don't think can both be true.
On the one hand, he wants to say
the truth. Of the principle of
acquaintances evidente as soon
as the principle is understood.
From the other hand, over here.
He wants to say I hold the
acquaintances holier relation.
Not demanding of any such
constituent of the mind
as is supposed by the
advocates of ideas, and I
take that to mean this.
Either the principle of
Quaintance is kind of empty
because it just compatible
with the theory of ideas, or
more likely.
The principle of acquaintances,
pretty controversial, because if
you accept that principle, you
reject all of the views of
those. Many philosophers have
claimed that there are ideas.
So it can hardly be then that
the principle acquaintances.
Evident as soon as it's
understood or at least I
think that's unlikely.
That would be a
breathtakingly fabulous
refutation of many other
philosophers and,
as you study philosophy
you realize
that philosophers very, very rarely
are engaged in any kind of
substantive form of reputation.
I think this
is probably not such a case.
Therefore my suggestion to you
is that these things can't both
be true. The principle can't
both be an interesting
philosophical device for
rejecting theories about the
connection between thoughts
and the world and also a
principle which is evident
as soon as it's understood.
We have to make a choice.